.ds CH
.ds RH 2-%
.ds LH ESP-r User Guide Version 10 Series
.ps 12
.vs 14
.nr PS 12
.nr VS 14
.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.LP
\ 
.sp 3
\ 
.ce
\fB\s+9Section Two\s0\fR
.sp 1
.ce
\fB\s+5A guide to effective system use\s0\fR
.sp 5
.SH
Contents
.sp 1
.IP 2.0
Introduction
.IP 2.1
Simulation strategy
.IP 2.2
General outline of program operation
.IP 2.3
Data file management
.bp
.SH
2.0 Introduction
.LP
In use ESP-r can be divided into two distinct parts.
.LP
The first is concerned with establishing a valid data model
(description of the building and/or plant configuration) for
simulation. This will involve the use of
the Project Manager.
The support modules can then be used to
increase the detail of the simulation to follow, if
this is deemed necessary.
.LP
The second part is concerned with the simulation processing
and subsequent results analysis. This will involve the use
of the Simulator and the Results Analyser. Note that all
ESP-r modules are invoked from the Project Manager.
.LP
In using ESP-r it is not important to know all the relationships
between the ESP-r program modules and the system's data structures.
However for a deeper appreciation these relationships are
shown in Figure 2.1.
.br
To work with ESP-r you need to be able to cope with a range of
technical concepts relating to material properties, control systems, and
the like. Information on the data requirements of ESP-r is held on-line
and is accessible through the Project Manager (via its tutorial facility).
Additional
details are given in a separate document "Summary of ESP-r's Data Model".
.KF
.PSPIC FIGS/fig2.1.epsi 14c 16c
.sp
.ce 2
Figure 2.1 Relationship between the ESP-r application modules and databases.
.sp
.KE
.LP
For each zone in the
building a geometry, construction and operations file must
be established. Then, optionally and to increase simulation
rigour, one or more
of the following zone files can be set up to replace the default
schemes implied by the data of the essential files:
a shading/insolation file, a blind/shutter
control file, a view factor file, an air flow file, a casual
gain (control) file and a convection coefficients file. The existence
of these optional files is indicated by the entries of a
zone utilities file created for the purpose.
The system configuration file is now set up to define
the zones and, perhaps, the plant components which will
participate in a simulation. Following this, the configuration control file
is established to define the control to be imposed on building
zones and plant components.
All of these files are created and/or edited via the Project Manager. This
program module can also be used to establish the data sets
as required by the \fIFluid Flow Simulation Module\fP
and the \fIInsolation and Shading Prediction Module\fP; namely, a
configuration leakage distribution file, a pressure coefficients file
and a site obstructions file.
Note that some of the optional zone files can also be created directly
from the support modules - for example
the \fIView Factor Prediction Module\fP can create a zone view
factor file. This is a powerful feature of ESP-r.
.LP
There are other files active in the system. These include the
primitives and composite construction databases, the event
profiles database, the plant components database,
the windows database and the climate
database. In addition: the Simulator will
produce two databases, for building- and plant-side, for transmission
to the \fIResults Analyser\fR; the \fISimulator\fR can also produce
a fluid flow results file for analysis and archival purposes;
and many of the modules can produce detailed computation trace files for
fault finding and highly focused appraisals.
Figure 2.1 summarises these possibilities and indicates the file
types involved.
.LP
The next section of the documentation set outlines a strategy
for effective use of these modules. Interactive
operation, by means of hierarchical menu
drivers or function button protocols, is also explained
and advice is given on managing
the file structures which result from the data preparation and
simulation activities.
.SH
2.1 Simulation strategy
.LP
The following step-by-step procedure should be closely
followed by a novice. On the other hand, an experienced user
may prefer an alternative strategy which bypasses some steps
or changes their order.
.IP 1.
Analyse the design problem in hand and decide on the
performance features to be appraised by ESP-r. Perhaps
zone comfort levels are to be determined, the consequences
of alternative design options assessed, or an optimum
control regime formulated. This is an important task since
it will influence the time and expense incurred thereafter.
.IP 2.
Now decide on the minimum number of building zones
and plant components which will yield the performance
measures required. For example, a one zone building model
will allow an appraisal of summer overheating in the absence
of cooling and against any number of design hypotheses. The
same model, combined with a six plant component air
conditioning plant (a mixing box, humidifier, fan,
cooler, heater and supply duct, say), will allow a study of
plant energy consumption against several control options.
Avoid, in the first instance, any attempt to
simulate large, complex building/plant
systems. It is, of course, possible to undertake such an
exercise, but only at the expense of time (data preparation)
and cost (simulation). Very often good design insight can be
obtained from simulations directed at portions of
the overall system. It is important not to be merely led by
the system but to give careful thought to the problem
composition. Perhaps small multi-zone building problems, with
specified zone conditions maintained, can be used to study
several building design options. Then, at some later stage, a
plant systems can be progressively added.
In ESP-r terminology, the final
system for simulation, irrespective of size or composition,
is termed the
.ul 1
system configuration.
.IP 3.
A computer model of the system configuration must now be
created via the Project Manager. The underlying procedure
is as follows. Firstly, each building zone in the
configuration is described in terms of its
.ul 1
geometry, construction
and
.ul 1
operation.
This results in the creation of three mandatory disk files per zone.
A
.ul 1
system configuration
file is then built. This contains a reference to these zone files,
information defining zone interaction, and a description of
the plant network (if one exists) in terms of individual components,
their inter-connections and building associations.
At the appropriate point, any of the constructions databases, the
event profiles database, the plant components database or the optics
database can be
accessed and an item contained therein extracted to define a
zone property or plant component.
.IP
The designer is simply required to answer
a series of questions concerning the system configuration. Control
of this interactive dialogue, along with validity checking
and automatic disk file building, is the principal function
of the Project Manager.
.IP 4.
At this stage, additional model details can be added.
.IP
An
.ul 1
air flow
file containing time-series infiltration and zone-coupled air
flow for use during a simulation. If present,
these air flows supersede the design air change profiles
specified in the corresponding zone operation
file. Note that if a building leakage description is active
(see later) then calculated flows will supersede both design
air change profiles and time-series air flow data.
.IP
A
.ul 1
casual gains
file containing time-series heat gains for use during a
simulation. Again, if specified, the casual gains will supersede
any casual gain profiles defined in the corresponding zone operation file.
.IP
A
.ul 1
casual gains control
file containing information on scheduling of casual gains
in order to simulate, for example, various switching
strategies for artificial
lighting based on the availability of daylight.
.IP
A
.ul 1
view factor
file containing inter-surface view factors for use in a
simulation to improve longwave radiation calculations.
.IP
A
.ul 1
shading/insolation
file containing time-series data on external surface shading
and/or internal surface insolation.
.IP
A
.ul 1
convection coefficients
file allowing the specification of zone surface convection values
to supersede those values which are computed at simulation
time on the basis of natural convection considerations.
.IP
A
.ul 1
transparent multi-layered constructions
file allowing elected zone multi-layered constructions to
be declared transparent.
.IP
A
.ul 1
flow domain
file specifying a 1-, 2- or 3-D grid and related
parameters in support of a CFD simulation.
.IP
Each of these optional zone files can be created by
terminal input directed by the Project Manager.
.IP
The time taken to reach this stage can vary greatly. An
experienced user will require about 20 minutes per zone
if the required data is readily available.
On the other hand a beginner can take substantially longer.
The only rule is to omit complexity in cases where its
inclusion cannot significantly influence the performance
aspect to be tested. For example, the omission of wall
vapour barriers will have little effect on summer cooling
loads but will completely alter winter interstitial
condensation profiles.
.IP 5.
A plant network can now be defined, component-by-component,
and connected to the established building model. It is normal
practice to bypass this step at an early design stage. Instead
ideal control statements are associated with each zone to
allow a study of the effects of the various design parameters.
At some later time the plant is added to allow a study of the
control issues. Of course, if the relationship between the
building-side design issues and the plant characteristics
are strong, and the plant details are known, then a combined
building/plant study can be undertaken from the outset.
.IP 6.
Simulations can now be commissioned from within
the Project Manager against the assumption that the configuration is
not subjected to control (a free-floating simulation). 
However, in most cases, some control will be required.
From the Project Manager the control regime can be
specified in terms of sensors, actuators and control laws.
The control specification is stored in the
.ul 1
configuration control
file which is then invoked from the Simulator.
This configuration control file, together with
the system configuration file (which references the
basic zone files and the active plant components),
and a climate file are the only
files required by the Simulator to completely describe the
problem for simulation processing.
.IP 7.
If air flow within the building configuration is to be
simulated by the Simulator in tandem with the energy
simulation (and perhaps a zone CFD simulation), it is necessary to define the distributed
building leakage and to ensure that the required pressure
coefficient sets are located in a related database. Both
operations are directed by the Project Manager, resulting in two
further disk files: the
.ul 1
fluid flow network
and
.ul 1
pressure coefficients
files. The names of these files are given to the Simulator at
the time of configuration file creation. The Simulator will now
assess the pressure and temperature driven air flows for the
defined zones and
disregard any air change profiles (located in the corresponding
zone
operations file) or active zone air flow file.
.IP 8.
From within the Project Manager it is possible to check
configuration geometry by computing area and volume
quantities or by generating perspective displays.
At this stage, it is possible to create a description of surrounding
site obstructions to define
the objects which will cause target zone shading.
.IP
Throughout the entire data preparation process, the Project Manager
offers editing and listing operations so that mistakes can
be easily rectified and hard copy records can be kept.
.IP 9.
The climate analysis module can now be used to analyse
the climatic collections held on disk in the format required
by ESP-r. By this mechanism, one collection is selected,
and typical sequences identified, to provide boundary
conditions which best stress the
performance attribute to be tested.
.IP 10.
Simulations are now performed
from within the Project Manager against one or
more
.ul 1
system configuration
and
.ul 1
configuration control
files. Changing either of these files, or the climate file,
allows different design options and control regimes to be
tested under different weather influences.
.IP 11.
All results recovery and analysis is then undertaken with
the help of the Results Analyser (invocable from within the Project Manager),
with the principal objective of
understanding the cause and effect relationships implied by
the energy flowpath magnitudes and directions.
.IP 12.
Appropriate design modification can now be implemented via
the Project Manager by editing a mandatory or optional
zone file, the system configuration file
or the configuration control file. In this way constructions
can be changed, operational schemes modified, plant layout
re-configured, shading devices added or removed, and so on.
.SH
2.2 General outline of program operation
.LP
A session with ESP-r might adhere to the following sequence.
.IP \(bu
Log on to the computer offering ESP-r.
.IP \(bu
Start ESP-r by issuing the command \fIesp-r\fR.
This will start ESP-r in its default graphics mode. You can specify
an alternative mode from the following list:
.nf
     esp-r -mode text     (text only mode with no pauses)
     esp-r -mode graphic  (default)
.fi
.IP
It is also possible to start up ESP-r directly with a 
configuration file. For example \fIesp-r -file xxx.cfg\fR
will start ESP-r with the problem specified in the system configuration
file \fIxxx.cfg\fR already loaded into the Project Manager.
.IP
The start-up
window size can also be controlled: type \fIesp-r -help\fR for
the required syntax.
.IP \(bu
Select commands as required from the menus displayed and
thereby pick a path through the program.
.IP \(bu
Answer the questions posed at each interaction.
.IP \(bu
Eventually terminate the program by returning to the main
menu and selecting the \fIExit\fP command.
.IP \(bu
Delete any unwanted files; for example, zone files no longer
required or results files (usually large) which have been
fully analysed.
.IP \(bu
Log off after checking that any disk quotas have not been
exceeded.
.LP
All program menus are hierarchical so that each menu pick
will result in a particular processing option (with control
returning to the same menu level), or will lead to a lower
level command menu. In graphics mode, menu
picks are initiated by the left mouse button. In text mode
selection is by an identifier.
.LP
To questions requiring a yes/no response a user may type 1,
Y, y, YES or yes and 0, N, n, NO or no. Also, after some output sequences,
the program will pause to allow examination of the displayed
page. The pause state is indicated by a \fBmore\fP button at the
bottom screen position. To continue click the left mouse button over
the "more" button.
.\" .LP
.\" \fIFunction buttons\fR
.\" .LP
.\" Here the run sequence is
.\" .IP \(bu
.\" Log on to the computer offering ESP-r.
.\" .IP \(bu
.\" Define the configuration for simulation by using \fBesp-r\fR in
.\" interactive menu mode.
.\" .IP \(bu
.\" Start the process \fBExpert\fR to initiate function button operation.
.\" This caused active rules scripts, containing the rules
.\" which govern each
.\" processing function, to be bound to selected keyboard buttons.
.\" .IP \(bu
.\" Select, by single button push, the required analysis or analyses.
.\" .IP \(bu
.\" Delete any unwanted files as above and log off.
.\" .LP
.\" ESP-r will normally offer several standard analysis scripts. When
.\" invoked, \fBExpert\fR will detail the processing
.\" options on offer and the
.\" corresponding terminal keys. At any time a user can develop a
.\" customised script and define this to \fBExpert\fR. Scripts contain the
.\" rules which will govern ESP-r's actions at runtime. They may also
.\" invoke other object modules which act to examine simulation results
.\" and make expert decisions to influence subsequent simulations or the
.\" nature of the results display associated with the particular script.
.\" .LP
.\" The establishment of a script is also the appropriate mechanism for
.\" controlling simulations which are best performed
.\" in batch or background mode.
.SH
2.3 Data file management
.LP
In addition to the database structures essential to ESP-r's
operation (containing primitive and composite
constructions, event profiles, plant components and climatic
collections), the following file types may be produced in a
typical session.
.IP \(bu
A mandatory
.ul 1
geometry, construction
and
.ul 1
operation
file for each zone.
.IP \(bu
An optional
.ul 2
air flow, casual gains, 
shading/insulation, view factor, surface convection
and
.ul 1
transparent multi-layered construction
file for some or all zones.
.IP \(bu
A mandatory
.ul 1
system configuration
file and, perhaps, a
.ul 1
configuration control
file.
.IP \(bu
Optionally, a
.ul 1
fluid flow network description
file
(i.e. a leakage distribution file in the case of a building air flow network), a
.ul 1
pressure coefficients
file and a
.ul 1
fluid flow results
file
(i.e. air flow results in the case of an air-only flows problem).
.IP \(bu
One or more
.ul 1
simulation results
files.
.KS
.TS
center box;
l l.
File Type	Extension
_
System Configuration	.cfg
Connections	.cnn
System Control	.ctl
Geometry	.geo
Construction	.con
Operations	.opr
Shading/Insolation	.shd
View Factors	.vwf
Air Flows	.air
Convection Coefficients	.hcf
Site Obstructions	.obs
Mass Flow Network	.mfn
Transparent Constructions	.tmc
Casual Gains Control	.cgc
CFD file	.dfd
.TE
.sp 0.5
.ce
Table 2.1 Filename convention
.KE
.LP
Effective file management can only follow from a file
naming convention (largely automated by the Project Manager) in which
the name itself yields information about the project and file type.
In ESP-r the file type is reflected in the filename extension as indicated
in Table 2.1.
.TS
doublebox center;
lbw(5i).
T{
Remember to avoid unnecessary complexity
by keeping the system configuration
as simple as allowed by the
design issue being studied.
T}
.TE
