These files were sourced from the following public web site:
<http://www.eren.doe.gov/buildings/energy_tools/energyplus/cfm/weatherdat_int.cfm>
Each site is an official WMO Station (with number). Esp-r and
EnergyPlus users are free to download the files.

These files have been cleaned and corrected either by Doe or by
ASHRAE.  They come with a disclaimer and a printed copywrite statement.
The text of this is included below. The clause in ADDITIONAL LICENSE
CONDITIONS where a portion of the data is used as a derivitive work
which does not confer an additional value applies to its use with
esp-r.

The EPW file format downloaded from the above web site needs a bit of
editing before it can be read by the ESP-r `clm` module. The following
changes need to be made:

a) the LOCATION and GROUND TEMPERATURES data lines sometimes include
blank entries (signified by two or three commas together such as:
LOCATION,Montreal Mirabel,,CAN,WYEC2-B-04770,716278,45.68,-74.03,-5.0,82.0

this should be edited to include at least one character between the ,, as in

LOCATION,Montreal Mirabel,PQ,CAN,WYEC2-B-04770,716278,45.68,-74.03,-5.0,82.0

b) data from WMO locations includes an index which is proceeded by 
a # which is treated by ESP-r as a comment indicator - change the #
to a space.

c) the COMMENT 1 line in files sourced from ASHRAE contains a license
and disclaimer statement which, at ~700 characters, is longer than ESP-r
can read. This line needs to be truncated at ~240 characters.

d) the downloaded file has DOS file endings and those using Unix
operating systems will probably find that they need to do a dos2unix
conversion.

e) downloaded files sometimes have two blank lines at the end. If the
conversion does not work, try deleting these lines.

Once the file has been edited, use the `clm` module import EPW
function.  Note: only those data items which are currently used by
ESP-r are extracted from the EPW file.


Here is the explicit license text that applies to downloaded files:

Original Source Data (c) 2001 American Society of Heating,
Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), Inc., Atlanta,
GA, USA.  www.ashrae.org

All rights reserved as noted in the License Agreement and Additional
Conditions.

LICENSE: You may use the data on a single machine. You may also copy
the data into any machine-readable form for backup purposes in support
of your use of the data on a single machine. You may not copy or
transfer the data except as expressly provided for in this license. To
do so will result in the automatic termination of your license.
Specifically, you may not copy or transfer the data onto a machine
other than your own unless the person to whom you are copying or
transferring the data also has a license to use them. However, selected
excerpts of content may be reproduced in paper form for distribution to
third parties with the written permission of ASHRAE. Distribution to
third parties without ASHRAE's permission is expressly forbidden.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES: The data is provided "as is" without warranty
of any kind, either expressed or implied. The entire risk as to the
quality and performance of the data is with you. In no event will
ASHRAE or its contractors be liable to you for any damages, including
without limitation any lost profits, lost savings, or other incidental
or consequential damages arising out of the use or inability to use
this data.

ADDITIONAL LICENSE CONDITIONS: This Product is also intended for use in
software or other programmed information. You may embed some or all of
the program and data contained within in another work for personal use
without written permission of ASHRAE.

If a derivative work is to be sold, traded or have a commercial value
otherwise established, ASHRAE will grant permission for embedding some
or all of the program and data providing such requests are made in
writing to the Publisher and the following conditions are met:  a) The
work has materially different purpose and function than the program and
data on this CD-ROM.  b) The ASHRAE copyright notice is included in the
work's introductory displays, other displays, and wherever copyright
notices are included.  c) The ASHRAE disclaimer of warranty is included
in the work's license and wherever other disclaimers are included.  d)
There is no implication in or on the work or in materials promoting the
work that ASHRAE has endorsed, reviewed, or certified the product.  e)
The work's license conditions prohibit redistribution of modified
versions of the work or the ASHRAE Product.

Requests to ASHRAE for use in derivative works must explicitly
acknowledge acceptance of the terms and conditions above.

